Hey, this is Stephen Furtick.
I'm the pastor of Elevation Church, and this is our podcast.
Be sure to subscribe so we can get you these new sermons every week.
Hope you're blessed today.
Ladies and gentlemen, remain standing and welcome to our e-fam all over the world.
As you continue to hug your neighbors, your friends, your family, and complete strangers,
It is my great joy to announce to you that today, preaching her final sermon of the year 2025, is my favorite fernick.
Your favorite fernick.
Everybody's favorite fernick.
Y'all give it up for Holly Merry Christmas.
Christmas.
Let me just get a good look at you.
What an amazing time we have had in worship today.
It feels so good in here.
The Lord is present in this place, amen.
The Bible says that he inhabits the praises of his people.
I think that means he's here with us today.
And you made it to church on the Sunday before Christmas.
Whether you're at one of our locations or you're joining us online, I know that that means that your heart is expectant today.
That you want more than just checking off things off your to-do list this week.
That you want to get your heart right.
this week, and you wanna be in the presence of Jesus, and I believe that God has a word for us today, and I'm really honored that I get to bring it to you.
So, okay, real quick, before you take your seats, I just wanna read our scripture for today.
I'm gonna be reading from Luke chapter one, if you have a Bible.
And last week, Pastor Stephen talked about how God provides, and he prompts.
It was so powerful, were you here?
Amazing.
This sermon was called Mary's Prayer.
And so I want to pick up today with a little bit more of Mary's story.
And we're going to start reading in the middle of the passage.
The angel has come to Mary and he's announced to her that she's going to give birth to the Son of God.
And we're going to start reading right there in verse 34.
Mary asked the angel, but how can this happen?
I am a virgin.
And the angel replied, the Holy Spirit will come upon you.
and the power of the most high will overshadow you.
So the baby to be born will be holy, and he will be called the son of God."
What's more, your relative Elizabeth has become pregnant in her old age.
People used to say she was barren, but she has conceived a son and is now in her sixth month for no word from God will ever fail.
Mary replied, I am the Lord's servant.
May everything that you have said about me
come true.
And then the angel left her.
A few days later, Mary hurried to the hill country of Judea to the town where Zechariah lived.
She entered the house and greeted Elizabeth.
At the sound of Mary's greeting, Elizabeth's child leaped
within her and Elizabeth was filled with the Holy Spirit.
Elizabeth gave a glad cry and exclaimed to Mary, God has blessed you above all women and your child is blessed.
Why am I so honored that the mother of my Lord should visit me?
When I heard your greeting, the baby in my womb jumped for joy.
You are blessed because you believed that the Lord would do what he said.
Father, would you bless the reading of this word today?
We love you, we want to hear from you.
It's in Jesus' name we pray, amen.
All right, the title of my sermon, don't sit down yet, don't sit down yet.
The title of my sermon is blessed because you believed.
On your way to your seat, ask your neighbor, are you blessed?
So several weeks ago, my husband stood up here and he told all of you about how I am a terrible liar.
It's true.
I don't know why, but I am really just the worst liar.
And what that means is don't ask me if I like your haircut.
Please do not put me on the spot like that because sometimes
I just can't think of anything to say and like the best thing that I might be able to come up with is like, wow, you look so good.
And then you won't believe me.
And I'm, you know, I just, I'm a terrible liar.
And what that means though also is that my inability to lie, it also makes me extremely gullible.
I, I'm just, I'm a believer.
Okay.
So I am a car salesman's dream.
You know, like I'm going to be like, yeah, like a little old lady drove this car.
She only drove it to church in the grocery store every week.
I mean, I just, I just believe what people say to me.
And I also believe I've recently come to realize everything that comes into my Instagram feed.
And this drives my family crazy.
Like I will frequently show my kids videos and be like, look at this.
This is amazing.
And my kids will look back at me and they're like, mom,
That's not real.
And so then I'll find another one.
I want to show, I got to show Steven so I'll say, you're not going to believe this.
And he'll look at me and he'll be like, Holly, you know, that's AI, right?
Okay.
So I'm slow.
I'm learning because I just believe that things are true.
Like the other day, this video came into my feed on Instagram.
And I don't know if you guys saw this one, but it was ring doorbell footage.
And which means it's true.
And there was a cat and a baby on a front porch.
And a bear wanders up.
And the cat hisses and like swats at the bear and saves the baby.
And when I saw this video, I thought, wow, that is one amazing cat.
And a couple days later, another one comes into my feet, different porch, different cat.
Different baby and I thought, I think we need to get a cat.
So then a third one came.
And this time, I thought, wait a minute.
Like, how many moms are leaving their babies alone on a porch?
This must be a eye.
You can't fool me three times.
I recently saw another one of this family of dolphins and they were like breaching the water.
And this tiny little baby dolphin like pops up out of the water.
It was the cutest thing I have seen in 2025.
And I was like, oh, wait, maybe this.
So I went to the comments because, you know, in the comments, people will let you know if this is AI.
And one of the first comments that I saw this woman said, if this is AI, don't tell me.
I don't want to know.
And I was like, amen, it's real.
How many of you would agree it's getting harder and harder to believe?
When I was in my 20s, I felt that belief was black and white.
This is what I believe.
This is what I do not believe.
And I believe that this is what you should believe too.
I was really fun to be around.
You would have enjoyed it.
As I've gotten older though, I've learned to let go kind of of the black and white.
And I've had to learn that believing God is so much more about who He is than it is about what I think He should do.
And in our story, Elizabeth told Mary that she was blessed because she believed.
And when I read this, those words just leapt off of the page for me.
The blessings in my life are directly tied to my beliefs.
What I believe about God has to be at the center of everything that I say and everything that I do.
And what I want you to know today is that God is not Santa.
We don't grow out of believing in Him.
We grow into our belief as we walk with Him.
as we begin our journey with Him.
We begin it with salvation, right?
Maybe you accepted Jesus as a child and you've known Him your whole life.
Maybe you accepted Jesus here at Elevation, you raised your hand and you got one of those orange Bibles.
Maybe you accepted Jesus online through our ministry.
We begin by knowing Jesus as our Savior.
But then we get to know that God is so much more than that.
God never intended for us to stop.
with salvation.
The gospel is not about accepting Jesus just so that we can go to heaven.
That's the beginning and the end.
But you will be blessed because you believed in Him.
The gospel is about believing in God and getting to know Him in the middle part, in the time that we have here on earth.
we get to know God when we worship Him, when we bring our questions to Him and our sorrows and our disappointments, and when we lay them before Him, and we begin to grow in our belief of who He is.
This February, our church is gonna celebrate our 20th anniversary.
And I'm so excited, I just want you to know, we're going big.
I've told my husband, I was like, we're doing this right.
20 years is a big deal.
So I've been combing through old videos and pictures.
And I've just been feeling all of the feelings of what it's been like these past 20 years.
And I just want to tell you, it has been the blessing of a lifetime to believe that God could use two kids from South Carolina to be able to lead a church and a ministry like this.
We were 25 years old when we started this church.
I don't know who wanted to come to a church led by two 25 year old kids, but thank you for coming.
And I'm so glad that God did actually call us to start this when we were young.
When we started this church, I was so naive.
And Stephen tells this story, I'm sure you've heard about how we were on our front porch in Shelby, North Carolina.
And I looked at him and I said, it's time for us to start this church.
And I believed with all of my heart that God was calling us to go and to do this and to step out in faith and to follow him.
But I had no idea how much I would grow in my understanding of who he is as we walked out
what we believed that he was calling us to do.
I want you to know that I have come to know God as Jehovah Jairah.
Because from the moment that we took the first step to move to Charlotte, we've seen him provide over and over and over again, every person that he put in our path, every resource that he prompted someone to give, every connection that led us to the next step.
I've also come to know him as Jehovah Nissi, the one who fights our battles,
for us.
I've come to know him as Jehovah Raffa, the God who heals.
And I've seen him bring healing and restoration to so many people across our ministries, families that were put back together, marriages that were restored.
I've come to know him as Emmanuel, God with us in the ups and the downs and in everything in between.
I have come to know that God is with me.
I am blessed because I
believed and you are blessed because you believe.
And the Christmas story is about a cast of characters who dared to believe that God was telling them what would come to pass and that it was true.
So my message today is very simple.
It's so simple that I'm almost embarrassed that this is what I'm bringing to you.
It's very common sense.
And in the time that we have left, I want to show you three things.
that I believe about God that I see in this part of the Christmas story.
And I just wanna warn you my parts, my points, they're not catchy, they don't rhyme, they don't spell anything at the end.
So don't be prepared to be in awe at the end.
We're gonna leave that for when Pastor Stephen comes back.
It's just a simple message today.
Three truths that we can believe about God this Christmas.
And the first one is, I believe
that God believes in me.
Let's go back to our scripture, verse 26.
In the sixth month of Elizabeth's pregnancy, God sent the angel Gabriel to Nazareth, a village in Galilee, to a virgin named Mary.
She was engaged to be married to a man named Joseph, a descendant of King David.
Gabriel appeared to her and said, Greetings, favored woman, the Lord is with you.
Confused and disturbed, Mary tried to think what the angel could mean.
Don't be afraid, the angel told her, for you have found favor with God.
Now, nowhere in this passage do we find a reason why God picked Mary.
God didn't pick Mary because she was strong.
It doesn't say that.
God didn't pick Mary because she was accomplished.
God didn't pick Mary because she was experienced.
She did not apply for this job.
She did not campaign for this job.
And she did not volunteer for this job.
But one day, an angel comes to her and he says, you have found favor with God.
Now, when I think of the mother that I would have picked for Jesus, if I was God, I would have picked a woman that already had a full brood of children.
A woman whose children were homeschooled and responsible
Like, they had a short chart that they actually used, and a woman whose children were respectful, a woman whose children looked after each other, and I would have picked a woman who knew the difference between Croupe and pneumonia.
I would have picked a woman whose house was clean and orderly, and especially I would have picked a woman who could cook good, home-cooked meals for the Son of God.
But God picked Mary.
And all we know about Mary is that she was a virgin who was blessed because she believed that she was the one for the job.
And that's all that God requires of you as well.
And I wonder how different my day would be if I woke up each morning and I said out loud, God picked me for this.
God picked me for this day.
God picked me for this job.
God picked me for this child, whatever the circumstances were that led me to this moment that I am in today, I am going to operate under the belief that God believes I am the one for this.
Now, I think we all live in the tension of the things in our life that we feel called to and the things in our life that we might not necessarily have chosen for ourselves.
Like, there are things in life that we go after.
Right?
God put a desire in your heart.
He gave you a gift and a passion.
And yes, it's hard along the way.
And yes, there are obstacles and things that you have to overcome.
But you're going after what you feel like you are supposed to do.
Anybody ever feel that way?
And it's wonderful.
And you should.
When you feel like you're called to do something, you should go after it.
But then there are things in life that, I don't know, it seems like they go after you.
Right?
Like the things that you didn't plan for, or the things you didn't expect, or the things that you don't feel qualified for, the things that seem to have just been like placed in your life or in your lap that you did not ask for.
And I want you to hear from me that God believes in you.
He chose you.
He chose you to be born at this time, at this place,
In this family, He gave you the children that you have.
He gave you the opportunities that you have.
He chose you.
God believed in you before you believed in Him.
Before the world began, He knew the number of your days.
You are not an accident.
You are chosen and selected to glorify God with your life.
I don't care what you've done or what you have not done.
The only thing that disqualifies you from being used by God is believing the lie that he can't use you.
That's it.
God believes in you.
You're chosen even when you don't feel capable.
You're chosen even when you don't feel like you deserve it.
You're chosen.
And if you wait until you feel ready or worthy or qualified,
or prepared enough, you're gonna miss what God has for you.
You're gonna miss the opportunities that are right in front of you today.
So Mary accepted the calling that God placed on her life.
She said, I am the Lord's servant.
May it be to me as you have said.
It's my favorite verse in the whole Bible.
It's the thing I wanna operate from.
It's the way I wanna live my life.
Okay, God, I'm your servant.
May it be to me as you have said.
And then the scripture tells us that she moved in the direction that she felt that God was leading her.
So the second thing that I believe is I believe that God leads me.
Now, this one is tricky because unfortunately, God does not always spell everything out for us, right?
He doesn't like write our next steps in the sky, but he does strongly suggest
what we should do next.
Look at Mary again.
This is verse 35.
It says, the angel replied, the Holy Spirit will come upon you and the power of the most high will overshadow you.
So the baby to be born will be holy and he will be called the son of God.
What's more?
Your relative Elizabeth has become pregnant in her old age.
People used to say that she was barren, but she has conceived the sun and is now in her sixth month for the word of God will never fail.
And Mary responded, here it is, I'm the Lord's servant.
May everything you said about me come true.
And then the angel left her.
I want you to know that sometimes what's next is what you already know.
The angel left Mary
And I imagine that she had to sort of like take in everything that had just happened.
She was like, okay, did that just happen?
Okay, what happened?
And she's replaying it in her mind.
Okay, the angel came and he said I was gonna give birth to the son of God.
But then he said something about my relative Elizabeth.
Elizabeth is pregnant.
Well, let me go see if that's true.
So verse 39 says a few days later, Mary hurried to the hill country of Judea to the town.
Where's Zechariah lived?
She entered the house and greeted Elizabeth.
Sometimes the next step is the thing that you already know to do, but you haven't done it yet.
The thing is, God's not going to reveal more to you until you do that.
Now one of the ways that God leads us is through the people that he puts on our path.
So God led Mary to Elizabeth.
But when Mary got to Elizabeth home, she enters the house and the moment she opens her mouth to say hello, the baby in Elizabeth's womb jumps and confirms what the angel said.
And Elizabeth says to Mary,
Why am I so honored that the mother of my Lord should visit me?
God will send you people when you move towards what you know."
God led Mary and Joseph to Bethlehem because of the census that was ordered, and it was there that the baby was born in a barn, but it was also there that the shepherds came and visited them and they said,
We saw an entire host of angels and we came to worship the Christ child.
And then eight days after that, they took Jesus to the temple.
It was the custom.
It was the thing that they were supposed to do.
It was what you did with your baby when they were eight days old.
You came to the temple and you dedicated them there.
And when they were there, Mary and Joseph, they ran into two different people, Simeon and Anna, the prophetess.
And at the temple, both Simeon and Anna, confirm what God is doing.
And they said, this is Jesus.
And they proclaimed, we have seen the salvation of the Lord.
The path for Mary was going to be so challenging.
But I believe
that every time that doubt crept into Mary's heart when she thought she didn't have what it took to be a good mom, when she thought she didn't know how she was going to protect her son or how she was supposed to provide for him, I believe that she could recall what God had spoken to her through Elizabeth, through Simeon, through Anna, through the shepherds, through the wise men.
And I want you to know that God is going to guide you too.
He's going to tell you what you need to know.
And as long as you keep moving in what you know, he's going to send people to confirm that you are on the right path.
But it's important to know that God's not going to reveal the entire plan to you.
God is going to show you what you need to see when you need to see it.
The angel came to Mary and said, the Holy Spirit will come upon you.
The angel didn't give her a timeline.
He didn't say, see we know the story.
So it's easier for us, right?
But Daniel didn't say to her, okay.
First you're gonna have the baby and he's gonna be born in Bethlehem.
I know that's weird, but you're gonna be there by accident kind of for the senses.
Then you're gonna go to Egypt for two years because Herod's gonna kill all the baby boys and it's not gonna be safe for Jesus to stay in Judea.
But eventually you're gonna come back and you're gonna settle in Nazareth.
And Jesus' ministry isn't gonna even start until he's 30.
So you'll have him for 30 years with you.
And then you're gonna get to see him do this amazing ministry.
And he's gonna perform these incredible ministry miracles.
And then the things that he's gonna do is
He's going to blow your mind, but then he's going to die on the cross, and it's going to be awful.
But don't worry, because he's going to rise again on the third day.
It's all part of the plan.
And I think as parents, we want that for our kids.
Like, wouldn't it be nice if they came with a timeline?
And we were like, it's okay.
It's all part of the plan.
Here's where they're gonna struggle, here's where they're gonna shine, and this is what you should do when this happens, and this is what you should do when that happens, and you should intervene here, but don't worry here.
God doesn't work like that, because God is more concerned with you than He is about your situation.
God wants a relationship with you.
A couple of weeks ago, Pastor Stephen preached something that I will never forget.
It was just a small point in his sermon, but he did this visual thing that just like, I don't know, it just like reached into my heart and I don't think I'll ever forget it.
But I don't know if you remember this, he said, faith is more like this.
And he kind of like, closes eyes, he put his hands like this out and he said, it's like grappling in the dark.
It's like feeling your way around and trusting God with each
tiny steps that you take.
He said, it's more like this than it is like this, holding tight to what I thought this was going to be.
And then he said, you hold tight to the promise, but you hold loosely to the plan.
Babe, that might have been the most impactful thing that you said this year.
It marked me.
It helped me because how many times in my life have I thought that faith is not wavering.
It's not letting go of the original plan.
I have to believe.
If I just believe, if I just come to him over and over again, reminding him of my plan and eventually everything will happen the way that I thought.
It's so hard to let go of what I thought was the plan.
I don't even want to think about how many times
I have said something to God that was of the nature of, God, this was not the plan.
Maybe you feel that way today.
God, divorce was not in my plan.
Sickness was not in my plan.
Job loss at Christmas time was not in my plan.
And I'm not saying that God causes these hard things to happen to us in life.
What I am saying is that faith is remembering
His name will be called Emmanuel.
God with us.
His plan is to be with me every step of the way.
His plan is to comfort us.
His plan is to guide us through the difficulties.
His plan is to grow us, mature us, and strengthen us in the process.
That's God's plan.
Jeremiah 2911, God says to Jeremiah, I know the plans I have for you, plans to prosper you, not to harm you, plans to give you a hope in the future.
This versus got me through some really hard times because it helps me know that when my plans don't go my way, I hold on to the promise that he has good plans for me.
The plans are his.
He holds the plans.
We hold on to Him.
The very first promise that was made to Mary was that the Holy Spirit will come upon you.
And you know, you have that promise too.
Jesus told the disciples, this is John 1613, He said, when the Spirit of truth comes, He will guide you into all truth.
The promise
that we cling to is that the Spirit will guide you.
The promise is not a map with turn-by-turn directions.
The promise is that you're taking a journey with the ultimate guide who you know is going to lead you through the hard parts.
Belief is not knowing how God will do it.
Belief is trusting the one who will.
We hold tight to the promise, not to the plan.
I have to tell myself this over and over and over again.
My job is not how.
Man, I want it to be how.
I'm really good at how.
My job is not how.
My job is who?
Who do I trust?
And who is he calling me to be when the plans aren't working out the way that I thought?
I can't control the plan.
I mean, you know what?
I think we all need to say that out loud.
Let's say it together.
I can't control the plan.
But you know what I can't control?
me.
I can control me.
I can control what and who I go to when I feel disappointed.
I can control what I say and what I don't say when I feel frustrated.
I can control my attitude.
I can control most of the time.
I can control my responses when things don't go my way.
I can do that.
That's the faith part.
When things don't go my way, can I release my grip on what I thought would happen?
Can I cling to the one who promised to be with me and do the things that I know he has already told me to do?
You don't get the next step until you do the things that you know he's supposed to do.
So maybe some of you, the word for you today is attitude.
God's like, I just want you to work on your attitude.
In this situation, can you have a better attitude?
Philippians 1, 6 says, he who began a good work and you will be faithful to complete it.
You don't have to know the plan.
You just have to stay close to the one who does.
You have to stay close to the one who promises to be faithful to complete the work that he started.
not the work that I started, the work that he started.
And I know that so many of you came in here this Sunday before Christmas feeling like you don't know what to do next in this situation.
And I want you to know that God is going to show you the next step.
You don't have to solve the puzzle.
You don't have to manipulate the situation.
You don't have to cheat your way into it.
All you have to do is take the hint.
Ask God to open your eyes to see where he is working and ask him.
Ask him to stop asking him to change your situation and start asking him to clearly show you what to do next.
God, spell it out for me.
Make it plain and I will obey.
The point is though, that you're going to him.
You go to him with your problems.
You go to him first and then, like Mary, Mary, Mary,
hurt from the Lord, and then she obeyed, and then God confirmed through Elizabeth.
You go to God, and then he might send a person to encourage you.
He might give you a verse to cling to.
He might give you a song to sing in this season.
He might show you a tiny little next step to take.
If you believe that he leads you, you will be looking for him everywhere you go.
God leads you.
Believe that, do you believe that God will lead you in your situation?
The last thing that I believe is that God hears me.
Oh, this is a hard one to accept.
I think when most people read the Christmas story, they start where we started with the angel coming to Mary.
But God, in the book of Luke,
He begins the Christmas story through Elizabeth Mary's relative and her husband, Zechariah.
I don't know if you've ever read the first chapter of Luke.
It's really beautiful.
It tells like this really beautiful story that God is weaving.
And so in the beginning of Luke, we find Zechariah, he was a priest and his wife Elizabeth was Mary's relative and she was barren.
They had no children.
In a culture where having children
was actually like a mark of how blessed you were.
It was everything.
And Zechariah and Elizabeth had prayed for a child, but God had not answered them.
Look at what Luke tells us about them in verse eight.
It says, one day Zechariah was serving God in a temple for his order was on duty that week.
As was the custom of the priests, he was chosen by Lot
to enter the sanctuary of the Lord and burn incense.
While the incense was being burned, a great crowd stood outside praying.
While Zechariah was in the sanctuary, an angel of the Lord appeared to him.
Standing to the right of the incense altar, Zechariah was shaken and overwhelmed with fear when he saw him, but the angel said, don't be afraid, Zechariah.
God has heard your prayer.
Your wife Elizabeth will give you a son.
and you are to name Him John.
God has heard your prayer.
Now this prayer, this was a prayer that Zechariah and Elizabeth had put to rest.
They had come to terms with the fact that it was too late for them to have a baby.
And a baby is just not a part of our story.
They're too old.
But yet,
The Bible tells us that they continued to faithfully serve God.
Zechariah was just doing his duty.
He was a priest.
Burning incense was something that happened twice a day in the temple, but this time he got chosen to go in and burn the incense.
You know, I believe that God often does the biggest work in the most ordinary parts of my life.
I believe that God saw every single day that Zechariah showed up and continued his duties day after day.
Zechariah was on duty.
He was doing his job.
And an angel comes to him and tells him that his son, the one he never thought he would have, the one he had given up on ever having his son
is gonna be the forerunner of Christ.
All this time, they had prayed for a child, they believed for a baby, and it never came to pass until the time was right.
And God was about to place a baby in their laps.
It just wasn't just any baby.
This was a special baby.
This was a baby that the prophets Isaiah and Malachi foretold.
This was the baby that had to be born at this time.
And God chose Zechariah and Elizabeth to raise this baby.
You know who it was, right?
John the Baptist, the one who would prepare the way for Jesus.
I mean, arguably the second most important baby born in the New Testament, right?
And God chose Elizabeth, but he wanted to use her pregnancy in her old age to confirm to Mary what was going to come to pass for her.
The time had finally come.
I thought about calling this message.
He heard you the first time.
Because I want you to know that God hears our prayers.
God hears our prayers.
God hears your prayers.
And just like Pastor Stephen taught us last week, he doesn't need our prompts.
God has been speaking to me so much about prayer this year, about what it is and kind of more what it's not.
And there's so many beautiful aspects of prayer.
There's written prayers.
There's spoken prayers.
There's silent prayers.
There's private prayers.
There's public prayers.
But what I am learning is that prayer is mostly about coming into God's presence.
However, you can do that.
It's about bringing Him into your situation.
And as God's child, as God's children, we have so many biblical examples.
that tell us that we can and we should come to Him with our requests.
That is perfectly acceptable and you should come to God with your requests.
But I want you to know if all you ever do is make requests, you are not going to experience the power and the presence of God in your life.
If God worked like Santa and you could just send them a letter every December, and magically all your hopes and dreams would come true,
There would be no faith required in that.
There would be no relationship needed in that.
It's just some guy that you write a letter to.
A couple of months ago, I was so frustrated about a situation that I've been praying about for years.
I mean, I have brought this thing to God and I've asked him to change it.
I have suggested many ways that I thought he could change it.
I've even been so good as to work out the times that I thought that God would move in this situation.
And I found myself back in that same place of frustration.
And I hope it's okay for me to tell you this, but I said to God, God, I can't talk to you about this anymore.
God, I don't even know what to say to you anymore.
When I pray about this, nothing happens.
So I'm just not going to talk about it anymore.
I feel like God whispered right straight into my heart.
I feel like He said to me, good.
I can work with that.
Just come into my presence, Holly.
You don't have to talk to me about it?
Just come into my presence.
Just sit in my presence.
I heard you the first time.
Remember there's nothing wrong with being persistent and having the faith to keep praying for God to do something in your life.
The Bible supports that, but sometimes you need to exercise the faith that believes that he heard you and that he's working in your situation.
that believes that he is telling a story on this earth that is so much bigger than you and your situation.
And faithfulness sometimes looks like showing up to the things that we know we're called to do just while we wait for the things that we hope for.
That's what Zachariah was doing.
There's a lady who's a part of our e-fam.
And she sent this letter to Pastor Stephen
And thank you, by the way, to all of the people who send us letters.
Your stories mean a lot to us.
And this story, I want to share this part of this story with you because it's just incredibly incredible.
She writes this.
I have been faithfully watching Elevation Worship Services at 9.30 a.m. Sunday mornings for the last six years.
I wanted to write you for a long time.
I wanted to share my testimony with you and let you know how you changed this particular chapter in my life with one of your sermons.
She says, your sermons continue to bring me hope and comfort.
And she goes on to talk about how she was raised in the church and her husband
was raised in the church and they raised their children in church.
They had three boys and one baby girl after their three boys were born.
And they raised their children to believe in God.
They raised them in church.
They taught them to love God.
And then she begins to share how in 2021, their daughter became involved with some very bad influences.
And she began to make some really poor choices.
And she eventually ended up, this is every mother's nightmare, she ended up living with a man who was an alcoholic and who was abusive to her daughter both mentally and physically.
And she says that they prayed fervently for their daughter.
And she says that finally one day their daughter came to them and she said she wanted to come home, but she said she couldn't because she believed that this man would harm her and harm her family if she left.
And in the letter, she says that the situation just felt helpless and hopeless.
And then she says, on July 2, 2022, we got a call that she had been involved in an accident.
And she said they rushed to the scene and they saw where her car was totaled and found out that she had been drinking.
And so right there, she was charged with a felony DUI.
And they took her to the hospital and they treated her for bruises and a broken nose and a broken hand.
And she writes this, she said, she said, I had to help her in the backseat of the police car once she was released from the ER.
She was on her way to jail for the night.
And initially my thoughts were, really God?
We gave her to you to watch over her.
And this is what you allow to happen."
And then she says, yes, I believe he did because she was able to get out of that man's house safely and move back home with us.
And we know that without his intervention, she would not have even survived the crash.
And she came home and she spent the next several months in AA and in therapy.
She was extremely faithful to her recovery and she made the necessary changes in her life and they were feeling really hopeful
But her court date came around.
And on February 20th, 2023, she goes on to say that to their utter devastation, their daughter was sentenced to 180 days in jail.
And she goes on to write, she says, I was angry with God.
I could not believe that he would allow this to happen now after she had spent so many months turning her life around
Jail?
She said, I spent my whole life trusting in God.
And then she says, side note, trust was my word for the year.
But now my trust was gone.
This is where it gets good.
The next Sunday, I was home alone.
And out of habit, I think, LOL.
I turned your service on.
The songs they sang that day were all my favorites, which I didn't want to hear, but they made me cry.
God was working despite my acceptance, despite my anger.
The title of your sermon was, God is up to something upstream.
Anybody remember that one?
I kept telling myself he was up to something, but I wasn't having it.
You kept giving examples in the Bible of how God was always 20 miles ahead of your situation or circumstance.
He's 20 miles ahead.
I kept hearing it over and over again, and something hit me.
I grabbed my phone and typed in directions to the county jail from my house.
I'm gonna cry.
Guess how far away it was?
20 miles.
She said,
I dropped to the ground.
Tears were flowing down my face.
God was 20 miles ahead, she said.
And a week or so later, in our conversation, she told me she was having Bible study in her cell and teaching and singing elevation music to all the girls.
She did four and a half months time
And the day we picked her up was one of the best days we have had.
God gave us so much grace and so much mercy.
During those months, I thought I would never make it through.
Wasn't in her plan.
She said, please keep my family and myself in your prayers.
We have learned to take one day at a time and we just keep praising our Father for all he does.
Amen.
What a story.
God is so faithful.
He's so faithful.
He hears us when we pray.
He heard you the first time.
He knows things that we don't know.
And we have to trust the one who is working in our situation even when it doesn't make sense.
I love how the letter ended with
We just keep praising our Father one day at a time because I think that's it.
Maybe if you find yourself in a place this Christmas where you're wondering if God heard your prayer or you're feeling like nothing is happening in your situation.
Maybe we can take our cues from this lady who's a part of our Epham and from Mary because Mary didn't prompt
God.
She didn't list out all of the things that God was going to need to do to work everything out for her.
She didn't remind God of all the things that could go wrong.
She didn't suggest people who were more qualified for this calling.
She praised her Savior.
She was blessed because she believed that God believed in her, that God was going to lead her, and that God heard her prayer.
She was blessed before she had seen any of these things.
come to pass.
And Luke tells us, he gives us her prayer.
It's called the Magnificat.
And she says, my soul magnifies the Lord.
My heart rejoices and God my Savior, for he lifts the lowly and he has done great things for me.
He hadn't even done anything for her yet when she said that.
She said, he has done great things for me.
I want you to know that praise is a reset.
It enables you to take your eyes off of your situation and place them on your savior.
So I want us to follow Mary's example today.
And I want us to magnify the Lord together.
I want us to bless his name for who he is and for what he's done so that we can trust him with what's next.
Hey, I hope you enjoyed the podcast.
And if you did, make sure to share it.
and subscribe so we can get you all of these new messages as soon as they're available.
I also want to take a moment and thank all of you who are a part of Elevation.
Whether you support us financially or serve with us or just share these messages, it's because of you that we're able to reach people all around the world.
And if you want more information on how to be a part of Elevation, click the link in the description.
Thanks again for listening.
Make sure to leave a review, share the message and subscribe.
God bless you.